1 | P a g e
 MUTHOOT MONEY LTD - LOAN POLICY
I. POLICY FOR "LOAN AGAINST GOLD JEWELLERY"
Product:
To provide loans to customers against pledge of gold jewelry as collateral security.
Nomenclature and tenure of the loan
Nomenclature:
The loan is given as a demand loan.
Tenure of the loan
All gold loans are sanctioned for a maximum tenor of 12 months unless otherwise
specified under a particular scheme.
Eligible customer:
Any individual who is the lawful owner of the Gold Jewellery offered as security
as per the declaration of ownership submitted by him and fulfilling the KYC norms
as per RBI guidelines.
Purposes:
The loan can be extended to anyone who is having short term fund requirements
like working capital for establishment/ expansion of business activity or meeting
personal liquidity requirements or domestic needs including medical expenses etc.
Loans shall not be used for any speculative or illegal or unlawful purposes
violating the laws of the Country.
Quantum of finance:
Quantum of finance will be decided on the basis of net weight of gold of 22 carat
ornaments tendered as security, its purity and subject to RBI guidelines issued
from time to time regarding loan to value.
2 | P a g e
Minimum loan amount per pledge: Minimum amount of loan per pledge would be
Rs.1500/- subject to the conditions that a) minimum weight of gold offered for
pledge should be 1 gram (net weight) and b) minimum 25% of the eligible loan
amount should be availed.
Quantum and purity of gold that can be pledged and deductions to be
considered
The minimum net weight of gold jewellery that can be considered for pledge is one
gram. The ornaments shall be of minimum 22 carat purity. The weight of pearl,
diamond, coral or any other stone or foreign material other than gold contained or
forming part of the ornament irrespective of its value shall be deducted from the
gross weight of the ornaments to arrive at the net weight for calculating the eligible
loan amount.
Interest and charges:
Interest and other charges to be levied shall be governed by the interest rate policy
adopted by the Board. The Board, or a committee empowered by the Board shall
review the interest rates and other charges periodically and approve necessary
revisions as per the business requirements. Any revision in interest shall only be
with prospective effect.
Interest and other charges to be levied on the loan shall be as per the schemes
formulated and amended from time to time. The interest rates shall be decided
based on the cost of funds, and also gradation of risk, the underlying principle
being higher the risk higher the interest, within the ceiling rate decided by the
Company. No loan shall be granted at a rate of interest less than the average cost of
funds of the Company without the specific approval of the Board.
The interest shall be calculated for the actual number of days the loan remains
outstanding from the date of loan disbursement to the date of closure. However, if
the borrower closes the loan within 7 days from the date of disbursement, then a
minimum interest for 7 days shall be payable for gold loan schemes where the
minimum effective interest rate is more than 11%. For gold loan schemes with
minimum effective interest rate is 11% and below, a minimum interest for 15 days